- [Instructor] In this lesson,
we'll discuss the trunk-based development workflow.
Trunk-based development is a rather new workflow.
Teams practicing trunk-based development
only collaborate on a single branch named trunk.
Under this strategy, trunk is the only long-lived branch
used by the team for pulling, syncing, or merging.
Some teams practicing trunk-based development
will allow branching from trunk
for release branches or other short-lived branches
used for code reviews.
In general, branching from trunk,
such as when using a feature branch, is not acceptable.
With few exceptions, developers commit directly to trunk.
You might wonder why a team would give up
the flexibility of working in multiple branches.
The selling point behind Trunk-Based Development or TBD
is that it reduces the problems that frequently occur
when merging long-lived branches
such as breaking the build, duplicate work,
and incompatible changes.
By focusing all development work on the lone trunk branch,
the distance between developers is reduced
and changes can be more rapidly released.
At first, trunk-based development may seem unmanageable
or not possible for large teams.
However, large organizations such as Google, Facebook,
and Amazon have made TBD possible
with massive development teams.
Let's talk about some of the strategies
that make trunk-based development successful.
Teams practicing TBD must adopt some common practices
in order to make it work.
First, commits must be kept small and performed frequently.
This shouldn't be a surprise
because it's an all-around good practice
for any development team.
However, for trunk-based development, it's crucial
because the longer your changes sit outside a trunk,
there's a higher potential for nasty merge conflicts.
A good strategy for sticking to small commits
is to keep the tasks small.
TBD teams put a large amount of work
into breaking down their tasks into small manageable pieces
because it avoids the need to create
long-lived feature branches
that violate the core principle of TBD.
Automation of quality assurance is also essential
via a CI/CD pipeline when using TBD.
Developers need to know when tests fail
or the build is broken immediately.
In fact, it's best practice to have your CI platform
integrated with your source code repository
so that it performs an auto rollback when builds fail.
If feedback from your CI platform is not up to par,
it increases the chances of breaking the code in trunk
which must be avoided when practicing TBD.
Trunk-based development strives to keep trunk release ready
or extremely close to release ready
so that changes can quickly be released if necessary.
Any time the build is broke,
teams drop everything to fix it.
So, that's trunk-based development in a nutshell.
In the next lesson, we're gonna talk about Git Flow.